--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
abc Abstract base classes according to PEP 3119.
anydbm  Generic interface to DBM-style database modules.
array Space efficient arrays of uniformly typed numeric values.
ast Abstract Syntax Tree classes and manipulation.
atexit  Register and execute cleanup functions.
audioop Manipulate raw audio data.
binascii  Tools for converting between binary and various ASCII-encoded binary representations.
bz2 Interface to compression and decompression routines compatible with bzip2.
chunk Module to read IFF chunks.
cmath Mathematical functions for complex numbers.
code  Facilities to implement read-eval-print loops.
codecs  Encode and decode data and streams.
codeop  Compile (possibly incomplete) Python code.
colorsys  Conversion functions between RGB and other color systems.
copy  Shallow and deep copy operations.
copy_reg  Register pickle support functions.
cProfile  Python profiler
crypt (Unix)  The crypt() function used to check Unix passwords.
_csv
datetime  Basic date and time types.
itertools Functions creating iterators for efficient looping.
dis Disassembler for Python bytecode.
posix (Unix)  The most common POSIX system calls (normally used via module os).
os  Miscellaneous operating system interfaces.
dumbdbm Portable implementation of the simple DBM interface.
dummy_thread  Drop-in replacement for the thread module.
errno Standard errno system symbols.
exceptions  Standard exception classes.
fcntl (Unix)  The fcntl() and ioctl() system calls.
filecmp Compare files efficiently.
fileinput Loop over standard input or a list of files.
formatter Generic output formatter and device interface.
gdbm (Unix) GNU's reinterpretation of dbm.
getopt  Portable parser for command line options; support both short and long option names.
getpass Portable reading of passwords and retrieval of the userid.
grp (Unix)  The group database (getgrnam() and friends).
hmac  Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication (HMAC) implementation for Python.
htmlentitydefs  Definitions of HTML general entities.
imghdr  Determine the type of image contained in a file or byte stream.
imp Access the implementation of the import statement.
keyword Test whether a string is a keyword in Python.
linecache This module provides random access to individual lines from text files.
mailcap Mailcap file handling.
marshal Convert Python objects to streams of bytes and back (with different constraints).
nis (Unix)  Interface to Sun's NIS (Yellow Pages) library.
operator  Functions corresponding to the standard operators.
functools Higher order functions and operations on callable objects.
contextlib  Utilities for with-statement contexts.
pwd (Unix)  The password database (getpwnam() and friends).
py_compile  Generate byte-code files from Python source files.
stat  Utilities for interpreting the results of os.stat(), os.lstat() and os.fstat().
quopri  Encode and decode files using the MIME quoted-printable encoding.
resource (Unix) An interface to provide resource usage information on the current process.
rlcompleter Python identifier completion, suitable for the GNU readline library.
signal  Set handlers for asynchronous events.
sndhdr  Determine type of a sound file.
spwd (Unix) The shadow password database (getspnam() and friends).
StringIO  Read and write strings as if they were files.
sunau Provide an interface to the Sun AU sound format.
symbol  Constants representing internal nodes of the parse tree.
symtable  Interface to the compiler's internal symbol tables.
sys Access system-specific parameters and functions.
syslog (Unix) An interface to the Unix syslog library routines.
token Constants representing terminal nodes of the parse tree.
traceback Print or retrieve a stack traceback.
types Names for built-in types.
unicodedata Access the Unicode Database.
UserDict  Class wrapper for dictionary objects.
uu  Encode and decode files in uuencode format.
uuid  UUID objects (universally unique identifiers) according to RFC 4122
warnings  Issue warning messages and control their disposition.
weakref Support for weak references and weak dictionaries.
zlib  Low-level interface to compression and decompression routines compatible with gzip.
time  Time access and conversions.
gc  Interface to the cycle-detecting garbage collector.
pstats  Statistics object for use with the profiler.
re  Regular expression operations.
bdb Debugger framework.
string  Common string operations.
cmd Build line-oriented command interpreters.
fnmatch Unix shell style filename pattern matching.
glob  Unix shell style pathname pattern expansion.
HTMLParser  A simple parser that can handle HTML and XHTML.
platform  Retrieves as much platform identifying data as possible.
textwrap  Text wrapping and filling
math  Mathematical functions (sin() etc.).
encodings
email Package supporting the parsing, manipulating, and generating email messages, including MIME documents.
importlib Convenience wrappers for __import__
hotshot High performance logging profiler, mostly written in C.
locale  Internationalization services.
sysconfig Python's configuration information
pkgutil Utilities for the import system.
numbers Numeric abstract base classes (Complex, Real, Integral, etc.).
bisect  Array bisection algorithms for binary searching.
cPickle Faster version of pickle, but not subclassable.
cStringIO Faster version of StringIO, but not subclassable.
difflib Helpers for computing differences between objects.
future_builtins
hashlib Secure hash and message digest algorithms.
imaplib IMAP4 protocol client (requires sockets).
aifc  Read and write audio files in AIFF or AIFC format.
binhex  Encode and decode files in binhex4 format.
compileall  Tools for byte-compiling all Python source files in a directory tree.
gzip  Interfaces for gzip compression and decompression using file objects.
argparse  Command-line option and argument-parsing library.
ConfigParser  Configuration file parser.
decimal Implementation of the General Decimal Arithmetic Specification.
collections High-performance datatypes.
modulefinder  Find modules used by a script.
heapq Heap queue algorithm (a.k.a. priority queue).
netrc Loading of .netrc files.
pickle  Convert Python objects to streams of bytes and back.
pickletools Contains extensive comments about the pickle protocols and pickle-machine opcodes, as well as some useful functions.
plistlib  Generate and parse Mac OS X plist files.
pprint  Data pretty printer.
random  Generate pseudo-random numbers with various common distributions.
repr  Alternate repr() implementation with size limits.
robotparser Loads a robots.txt file and answers questions about fetchability of other URLs.
sched General purpose event scheduler.
shelve  Python object persistence.
shlex Simple lexical analysis for Unix shell-like languages.
struct  Interpret strings as packed binary data.
tempfile  Generate temporary files and directories.
UserList  Class wrapper for list objects.
UserString  Class wrapper for string objects.
webbrowser  Easy-to-use controller for Web browsers.
whichdb Guess which DBM-style module created a given database.
xdrlib  Encoders and decoders for the External Data Representation (XDR).
zipfile Read and write ZIP-format archive files.
dummy_threading Drop-in replacement for the threading module.
timeit  Measure the execution time of small code snippets.
Cookie  Support for HTTP state management (cookies).
cookielib Classes for automatic handling of HTTP cookies.
csv Write and read tabular data to and from delimited files.
pdb The Python debugger for interactive interpreters.
shutil  High-level file operations, including copying.
tarfile Read and write tar-format archive files.
urllib2 Next generation URL opening library.
fractions Rational numbers.
pipes (Unix)  A Python interface to Unix shell pipelines.
distutils Support for building and installing Python modules into an existing Python installation.
json  Encode and decode the JSON format.
gettext Multilingual internationalization services.
lib2to3.__main__ the 2to3 library
logging Flexible event logging system for applications.
test  Regression tests package containing the testing suite for Python.
unittest  Unit testing framework for Python.
profile Python source profiler.
base64  RFC 3548: Base16, Base32, Base64 Data Encodings
wave  Provide an interface to the WAV sound format.
urlparse  Parse URLs into or assemble them from components.
Queue A synchronized queue class.
urllib  Open an arbitrary network resource by URL (requires sockets).
SimpleXMLRPCServer  Basic XML-RPC server implementation.
poplib  POP3 protocol client (requires sockets).
ftplib  FTP protocol client (requires sockets).
httplib HTTP and HTTPS protocol client (requires sockets).
mmap  Interface to memory-mapped files for Unix and Windows.
runpy Locate and run Python modules without importing them first.
smtplib SMTP protocol client (requires sockets).
socket  Low-level networking interface.
SocketServer  A framework for network servers.
telnetlib Telnet client class.
zipimport support for importing Python modules from ZIP archives.
smtpd A SMTP server implementation in Python.
BaseHTTPServer  Basic HTTP server (base class for SimpleHTTPServer and CGIHTTPServer).
SimpleHTTPServer  This module provides a basic request handler for HTTP servers.
cgi Helpers for running Python scripts via the Common Gateway Interface.
mimetypes Mapping of filename extensions to MIME types.
xmlrpclib XML-RPC client access.
CGIHTTPServer This module provides a request handler for HTTP servers which can run CGI scripts.
nntplib NNTP protocol client (requires sockets).
asynchat  Support for asynchronous command/response protocols.
cgitb Configurable traceback handler for CGI scripts.
DocXMLRPCServer Self-documenting XML-RPC server implementation.
inspect Extract information and source code from live objects.
pyclbr  Supports information extraction for a Python class browser.
tabnanny  Tool for detecting white space related problems in Python source files in a directory tree.
tokenize  Lexical scanner for Python source code.
trace Trace or track Python statement execution.
site  A standard way to reference site-specific modules.
pydoc Documentation generator and online help system.
doctest Test pieces of code within docstrings.
calendar  Functions for working with calendars, including some emulation of the Unix cal program.
mailbox Manipulate mailboxes in various formats
io  Core tools for working with streams.
ctypes  A foreign function library for Python.
parser  Access parse trees for Python source code.
wsgiref.handlers WSGI Utilities and Reference Implementation.
xml.parsers.expat
ssl TLS/SSL wrapper for socket objects
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Irrelevant without appropriate libraries
  bsddb Interface to Berkeley DB database library
  dbhash  DBM-style interface to the BSD database library.
  dbm (Unix)  The standard "database" interface, based on ndbm.
  sqlite3 A DB-API 2.0 implementation using SQLite 3.x.
  ossaudiodev (Linux, FreeBSD)  Access to OSS-compatible audio devices.
Lack of tcl support
  ScrolledText (Tk) Text widget with a vertical scroll bar.
  Tix Tk Extension Widgets for Tkinter
  Tkinter Interface to Tcl/Tk for graphical user interfaces
  ttk Tk themed widget set
  turtle  Turtle graphics for Tk
Lack of signal/terminal control support
  fpectl (Unix) Provide control for floating point exception handling.
  readline (Unix) GNU readline support for Python.
  pty (Linux) Pseudo-Terminal Handling for Linux.
  termios (Unix)  POSIX style tty control.
  tty (Unix)  Utility functions that perform common terminal control operations.
  asyncore  A base class for developing asynchronous socket handling services.
  curses (Unix) An interface to the curses library, providing portable terminal handling.
Lack of threading/process support
  multiprocessing Process-based "threading" interface.
  select  Wait for I/O completion on multiple streams.
  thread  Create multiple threads of control within one interpreter.
  threading Higher-level threading interface.
  subprocess  Subprocess management.
Lack of sockets
  imaplib
  telnetlib
  smtpd
  asynchat
  SocketServer
  BaseHTTPServer
  SimpleHTTPServer
  SimpleXMLRPCServer
  CGIHTTPServer
  DocXMLRPCServer
  webbrowser
  ssl
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
